Document HTTP/2 client API (#3731)
akka/akka-http: docs/src/main/paradox/client-side/http2.md

# Client-Side HTTP/2 (Preview)

@@@ warning
Client-Side HTTP/2 support in akka-http is currently available as a preview.
This means it is ready to be evaluated, but the APIs and behavior are likely to change.
@@@

@@@ note
It is recommended to first read the @ref[Implications of the streaming nature of Request/Response Entities](../implications-of-streaming-http-entity.md) 
and @ref[Host-Level Client-Side API](./host-level.md) sections, as they explain the underlying full-stack streaming 
concepts, tuning the client settings and HTTPS context and how to handle the Request-Response Cycle, which may be 
unexpected when coming from a background with non-"streaming first" HTTP Clients.
@@@

## Enable HTTP/2 support

HTTP/2 can then be enabled through configuration:

```

> akka.http.server.preview.enable-http2 = on

Reviewer: This is not needed for the client, right?

```

## Create the client 

The Akka HTTP client supports HTTP/2 over TLS, and h2c with prior knowledge (plaintext), but not 

> the HTTP Upgrade mechanism.

Reviewer: Not sure if it's clear that HTTP Upgrade is also a h2c (plaintext) option. Perhaps using bullets might help here?

### HTTP/2 over TLS

To create a client, use the `Http()` fluent API to connect and use the `http2()` creator:

Scala
:   @@snip[Http2Spec.scala](/docs/src/test/scala/docs/http/scaladsl/Http2Spec.scala) { #http2Client }

Java
:   @@snip[Http2Test.java](/docs/src/test/java/docs/http/javadsl/Http2Test.java) { #http2Client }

HTTP/2 over TLS needs [Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation)
to negotiate whether both client and server support HTTP/2. The JVM provides ALPN support starting from JDK 8u252.

> Make sure you run a JVM version greater than that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to use at least that version.
```

### h2c with prior knowledge

The other option is to connect and start communicating in HTTP/2 immediately. You must know beforehand the target server
supports HTTP/2 over plaintext. For this reason this approach is known as h2c with
[Prior Knowledge](https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#known-http) of HTTP/2 support.

To create a client, use the `Http()` fluent API to connect and use the `http2WithPriorKnowledge()` creator:

Scala
:   @@snip[Http2Spec.scala](/docs/src/test/scala/docs/http/scaladsl/Http2Spec.scala) { #http2ClientWithPriorKnowledge }

Java
:   @@snip[Http2Test.java](/docs/src/test/java/docs/http/javadsl/Http2Test.java) { #http2ClientWithPriorKnowledge }

> 

Reviewer: perhaps add a h2c via HTTP Upgrade section here, explaining again that negotiating between HTTP/1 and HTTP/2 using the `Upgrade` header mechanism isn't supported for Akka HTTP clients?

> ## Request-response ordering

Reviewer: good to move that here :+1:

For HTTP/2 connections the responses are not guaranteed to arrive in the same order that the requests were emitted to
the server, for example a request with a quickly available response may outrun a previous request that the server is
slower to respond to. For HTTP/2 it is therefore often important to have a way to correlate the response with what request
it was made for. This can be achieved through a @apidoc[RequestResponseAssociation] set on the request, Akka HTTP will pass
such association objects on to the response.

> In this sample the built in @scala[`akka.http.scaladsl.model.ResponsePromise`]@java[`akka.http.javadsl.model.ResponseFuture`] `RequestResponseAssociation`  is used to return

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sample the built-in @scala[`akka.http.scaladsl.model.ResponsePromise`]@java[`akka.http.javadsl.model.ResponseFuture`] `RequestResponseAssociation`  is used to return
```

# Client-Side HTTP/2 (Preview)

@@@ warning
Client-Side HTTP/2 support in akka-http is currently available as a preview.

> This means it is ready to be evaluated, but the APIs and behavior are likely to change.

Author: I copy-pasted this. I'll edit both pages.

concepts, tuning the client settings and HTTPS context and how to handle the Request-Response Cycle, which may be 
unexpected when coming from a background with non-"streaming first" HTTP Clients.
@@@

## Create the client 

There are three mechanisms for a client to establish an HTTP/2 connection. The Akka HTTP supports:

 - HTTP/2 over TLS 
 - h2c with prior knowledge (which is plaintext)

The Akka HTTP doesn't support:

 - HTTP Upgrade mechanism (which is plaintext)

### HTTP/2 over TLS

To create a client, use the `Http()` fluent API to connect and use the `http2()` creator:

Scala
:   @@snip[Http2Spec.scala](/docs/src/test/scala/docs/http/scaladsl/Http2Spec.scala) { #http2Client }

Java
:   @@snip[Http2Test.java](/docs/src/test/java/docs/http/javadsl/Http2Test.java) { #http2Client }

HTTP/2 over TLS needs [Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-Layer_Protocol_Negotiation)
to negotiate whether both client and server support HTTP/2. The JVM provides ALPN support starting from JDK 8u252.
Make sure to use at least that version.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Akka HTTP does not currently support protocol negotiation to fall back to HTTP/1.1 for this API. When the server does not support HTTP/2, the stream will fail.
```

### h2c with prior knowledge

The other option is to connect and start communicating in HTTP/2 immediately. You must know beforehand the target server
supports HTTP/2 over plaintext. For this reason this approach is known as h2c with
[Prior Knowledge](https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7540.html#known-http) of HTTP/2 support.

To create a client, use the `Http()` fluent API to connect and use the `http2WithPriorKnowledge()` creator:

Scala
:   @@snip[Http2Spec.scala](/docs/src/test/scala/docs/http/scaladsl/Http2Spec.scala) { #http2ClientWithPriorKnowledge }

Java
:   @@snip[Http2Test.java](/docs/src/test/java/docs/http/javadsl/Http2Test.java) { #http2ClientWithPriorKnowledge }

### HTTP Upgrade mechanism

The Akka HTTP client doesn't support HTTP/1 to HTTP/2 negotiation over plaintext using the `Upgrade` mechanism.

## Request-response ordering

For HTTP/2 connections the responses are not guaranteed to arrive in the same order that the requests were emitted to
the server, for example a request with a quickly available response may outrun a previous request that the server is

> slower to respond to. For HTTP/2 it is therefore often important to have a way to correlate the response with what request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
slower to respond to. For HTTP/2 it is therefore important to have a way to correlate the response with the request
```

> slower to respond to. For HTTP/2 it is therefore often important to have a way to correlate the response with what request
> it was made for. This can be achieved through a @apidoc[RequestResponseAssociation] set on the request, Akka HTTP will pass
> such association objects on to the response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
slower to respond to. For HTTP/2 it is therefore important to have a way to associate a response with its request.
For this purpose, request attributes whose value extends from @apidoc[RequestResponseAssociation] will be automatically propagated from the request to the response.
```
